Documenting how to declare resources (#1754)
liqotech/liqo: docs/features/offloading.md

# Offloading

**Workload offloading** is enabled by a **virtual node**, which is spawned in the local (i.e., consumer) cluster at the end of the peering process, and represents (and aggregates) the subset of resources shared by the remote cluster.

This solution enables the **transparent extension** of the local cluster, with the new node (and its capabilities) seamlessly taken into account by the vanilla Kubernetes scheduler when selecting the best place for the workloads execution.
At the same time, this approach is fully compliant with the **standard Kubernetes APIs**, hence allowing to interact with and inspect offloaded pods just as if they were executed locally.

## Assigned resources

> By default, the virtual node is created by allocating 90% of the resources available (TODO: totally available or currently free?) on the remote cluster. For instance, if the remote cluster has 100 CPU cores, the virtual node will advertise 90 CPU cores.

Reviewer: It is the **currently free** percentage.

> By default, the virtual node is created by allocating 90% of the resources available (TODO: totally available or currently free?) on the remote cluster. For instance, if the remote cluster has 100 CPU cores, the virtual node will advertise 90 CPU cores.

Author: ```suggestion
By default, the virtual node is created by allocating 90% of the resources present in the remote cluster. For instance, if the remote cluster has 100 CPU cores, the virtual node will advertise 90 CPU cores.
```

This applies to all the resources available in the remote cluster, e.g., CPUs, RAM, GPUs.

> TODO: is it possible to customize this value, e.g., to 50%? Is it possible to change it at run-time (e.g., from 90% to 80%)?

Reviewer: Yes using the `--sharing-percentage` is possible to set the amount of shared resources. 
The reference Is [here](https://docs.liqo.io/en/v0.7.2/installation/install.html#control-plane). It is possible to change the value at runtime.

> TODO: is it possible to customize this value, e.g., to 50%? Is it possible to change it at run-time (e.g., from 90% to 80%)?

Author: ```suggestion
This value can be customized at install time using the `--sharing-percentage` option, as documented in the proper [installation section](https://docs.liqo.io/en/v0.7.2/installation/install.html#control-plane).
```

# Offloading

**Workload offloading** is enabled by a **virtual node**, which is spawned in the local (i.e., consumer) cluster at the end of the peering process, and represents (and aggregates) the subset of resources shared by the remote cluster.

This solution enables the **transparent extension** of the local cluster, with the new node (and its capabilities) seamlessly taken into account by the vanilla Kubernetes scheduler when selecting the best place for the workloads execution.
At the same time, this approach is fully compliant with the **standard Kubernetes APIs**, hence allowing to interact with and inspect offloaded pods just as if they were executed locally.

## Assigned resources

By default, the virtual node is assigned with 90% of the resources available in the remote cluster. For example:
* If the remote cluster has 100 vCPUs available, the virtual node will feature 90 vCPU.

> * If now the remote cluster starts some applications that consume (e.g., pods _requesting_ resources) 50 vCPUs, the virtual node is resized to 45vCPU cores (i.e., 90% of (100-50)).

Author: ```suggestion
* If now the remote cluster starts some applications that consume 50 vCPUs (i.e., running pods _requesting_ resources), the virtual node is resized to 45vCPU cores (i.e., 90% of (100-50)).
```

> * If now the remote cluster starts some applications that consume 50 vCPUs (i.e., running pods _requesting_ resources), the virtual node is resized to 45 vCPUs (i.e., 90% of (100-50)).

Author: ```suggestion
* If now the remote cluster starts some applications that consume 50 vCPUs (i.e., pods _requesting_ resources), the virtual node is resized to 45 vCPUs (i.e., 90% of (100-50)).
```

* If the remote cluster has some autoscaling mechanism that, at some point, double its size and reaches 200 vCPUs (all of them unused by any pod), the virtual node will advertise 180 vCPUs.

This mechanism applies to all the physical resources available in the remote cluster, e.g., CPUs, RAM, GPUs.

> This value can be customized also at run-time using the `--sharing-percentage` option, as documented in the proper [installation section](https://docs.liqo.io/en/v0.7.2/installation/install.html#control-plane).

Author: ```suggestion
This value can be customized also at run-time using the `--sharing-percentage` option, as documented in the proper [section](https://docs.liqo.io/en/latest/installation/install.html#control-plane) of the Liqo installation.
```

> **Warning 1**: pay attention to _math rounding_. For instance, if your remote cluster has 1 GPU, 0.9GPUs are assigned to the virtual node. Since numbers must be integers, you may end up with a virtual node with _zero_ GPUs.

Author: ```suggestion
**Warning 1**: pay attention to _math rounding_. For instance, if your remote cluster has 1 GPU, with default parameters 0.9 GPUs are assigned to the virtual node. Since numbers must be integers, you may end up with a virtual node with _zero_ GPUs.
```

> **Warning 2**: remember that the `--sharing-percentage` is a global option. Currently, vanilla Liqo cannot differentiate the resources assigned to different peering partners, unless creating your own [Resource Plugin](https://github.com/liqotech/liqo-resource-plugins).

Author: ```suggestion
**Warning 2**: remember that the `--sharing-percentage` is a global option. Currently, vanilla Liqo cannot differentiate the resources assigned to different peering clusters, unless creating your own [Resource Plugin](https://github.com/liqotech/liqo-resource-plugins).
```

# Offloading

**Workload offloading** is enabled by a **virtual node**, which is spawned in the local (i.e., consumer) cluster at the end of the peering process, and represents (and aggregates) the subset of resources shared by the remote cluster.

This solution enables the **transparent extension** of the local cluster, with the new node (and its capabilities) seamlessly taken into account by the vanilla Kubernetes scheduler when selecting the best place for the workloads execution.
At the same time, this approach is fully compliant with the **standard Kubernetes APIs**, hence allowing to interact with and inspect offloaded pods just as if they were executed locally.

## Assigned resources

By default, the virtual node is assigned with 90% of the resources available in the remote cluster. For example:

> * If the remote cluster has 100 vCPUs available, the virtual node will feature 90 vCPU.

Author: ```suggestion
* If the remote cluster has 100 vCPUs available, the virtual node created with 90 vCPUs.
```

* If now the remote cluster starts some applications that consume 50 vCPUs (i.e., pods _requesting_ resources), the virtual node is resized to 45 vCPUs (i.e., 90% of (100-50)).
* If the remote cluster has some autoscaling mechanism that, at some point, double the size of the cluster, which reaches 200 vCPUs (all of them unused by any pod), the virtual node will advertise 180 vCPUs.

This mechanism applies to all the physical resources available in the remote cluster, e.g., CPUs, RAM, GPUs and more.

> This value can be customized also at run-time using the `--sharing-percentage` option, as documented in the proper [section](https://docs.liqo.io/en/latest/installation/install.html#control-plane) of the Liqo installation.

Author: ```suggestion
The percentage of sharing can be customized also at run-time using the `--sharing-percentage` option, as documented in the proper [section](https://docs.liqo.io/en/latest/installation/install.html#control-plane) of the Liqo installation.
```

> **Warning 1**: pay attention to _math rounding_. For instance, if your remote cluster has 1 GPU, with default parameters 0.9 GPUs are assigned to the virtual node. Since numbers must be integers, you may end up with a virtual node with _zero_ GPUs.

Author: ```suggestion
**Warning 1**: pay attention to _math rounding_. For instance, if your remote cluster has 1 GPU, with default settings the virtual node will be set with 0.9 GPUs. Since numbers must be integers, you may end up with a virtual node with _zero_ GPUs.
```

> The percentage of sharing can be customized also at run-time using the `--sharing-percentage` option, as documented in the proper [section](https://docs.liqo.io/en/latest/installation/install.html#control-plane) of the Liqo installation.
> 
> **Warning 1**: pay attention to _math rounding_. For instance, if your remote cluster has 1 GPU, with default settings the virtual node will be set with 0.9 GPUs. Since numbers must be integers, you may end up with a virtual node with _zero_ GPUs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```{warning}
Pay attention to _math rounding_. For instance, if your remote cluster has 1 GPU, with default settings the virtual node will be set with 0.9 GPUs. Since numbers must be integers, you may end up with a virtual node with _zero_ GPUs.
```
```

It is just an aetetich suggestion.

Reviewer: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/33266330/230153405-3c159264-b579-46b7-84b6-9eb76f092bd3.png)

> **Warning 2**: remember that the `--sharing-percentage` is a global option. Currently, vanilla Liqo cannot differentiate the resources assigned to different peering clusters, unless creating your own [Resource Plugin](https://github.com/liqotech/liqo-resource-plugins).

Author: ```suggestion
**Warning 2**: remember that the `--sharing-percentage` option is a unique and global parameter for the cluster. Hence, at present Liqo cannot differentiate the resources assigned to different peering clusters, unless creating your own [Resource Plugin](https://github.com/liqotech/liqo-resource-plugins).
```

> **Warning 2**: remember that the `--sharing-percentage` option is a unique and global parameter for the cluster. Hence, at present Liqo cannot differentiate the resources assigned to different peering clusters, unless creating your own [Resource Plugin](https://github.com/liqotech/liqo-resource-plugins).
> 
> **Extension**: For a more granular definition of the resources, you should consider installing (or creating) an external [Resource Plugin](https://github.com/liqotech/liqo-resource-plugins).

Reviewer: It looks like a repetition of the same concept to me. Maye something similar could be a good idea?
```suggestion
**Warning 2**: remember that the `--sharing-percentage` option is a unique and global parameter for the cluster. Hence, at present Liqo cannot differentiate the resources assigned to different peering clusters. For a more granular definition of the resources, you should consider installing (or creating) an external [Resource Plugin](https://github.com/liqotech/liqo-resource-plugins)
```
